# Variables

I have based these notes on this reference. I presume you have already done some programming with me (or someone else), so I'm diving straight in without exhaustive explanation.
The default value of any variable is $null. 

Type the command 

```
Get-Variable 
```
to see what is currently defined by default. The assignment operator is = and I can create a variable and print it as shown below. Run these lines one at a time.
```
$Rubbish = 1, 2, "a", "££"
$Rubbish
clear-variable -Name Rubbish
$Rubbish
Remove-Variable -Name Rubbish 
```
I can clear the variable after use or set it = $null or I can entirely delete the variable. You can store any type of object in a variable, such as arrays, integers, and strings. But remember, in PowerShell, processes, services, etc are all also objects.
```
$Rubbish = 1, 2, "a", "££"
$Rubbish.GetType()
```
Usefully, we can cast a variable, so it has a fixed type.
```
[int]$Rubbish = 1
$Rubbish.GetType() 
```
If I pass a string to variable, it will automatically convert it.
```
[int]$Rubbish = 1
$Rubbish = "123456789"
$Rubbish 
```
However, if it’s a string of letters, PowerShell doesn’t do miracles!
```
[int]$Rubbish = 1
$Rubbish = "This will give you an error!"
$Rubbish 
```
You can translate a date into a datetime object, but the format of the input string is assumed to be US, __mmddyyyy__.
```
[datetime]$OGGI = "10/13/2025"
$OGGI 
``` 
Do some reading and see if you can figure out how to get PowerShell to expect the input string in __ddmmyyyy__ format as we would use in Ireland. If you get it to work, include it in your scripts.

For conversions of variable types, review [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/lang-spec/chapter-06?view=powershell-7.4).

A useful trick, I can store the output of a command for later use.
```
$dir_listing = Get-ChildItem c:\
$dir_listing 
```
You can check if a variable exists using test-path variable:\dir_listing When programmes get more complex, it can be tough keeping track of variables, I love this feature!
```
New-Variable JORzVariable -value 3.142 -description "PI with write-protection" -option ReadOnly
Get-Variable JORzVariable
```
Notice that this was intended to be a constant, so I also write-protected it.

## Example
Below I do a simple tax calculation.
```
$NET = 111
$VAT = 0.23
$VATAMOUNT = $amount * $VAT
$GROSS = $NET + $VATAMOUNT
$text = "The total €$GROSS is the sum of the net value €$amount with the VAT amount €$VATAMOUNT at $VAT% VAT rate"
$text
```